DOC-437 - refresh CP docs (#1703)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/cp-subsystem/pages/configuration.adoc

====

[[persistence]]
== Persist CP data structures

To enable xref:cp-subsystem:cp-subsystem.adoc#persistence[CP Subsystem persistence], set the <<persistence-enabled, `persistence-enabled`>> option to `true`.

When CP Subsystem persistence is enabled, all Hazelcast cluster members, including AP members, create a sub-directory under the base `cp-data` directory. CP members persist CP state in these sub-directories. AP members persist only their status as non-CP members.

If you have both CP and AP members in your cluster and you want to perform a cluster-wide restart, you need to ensure that AP members are also restarted with their CP persistence stores.
//RJS: how do you ensure that?

To change the base directory, set a value in the <<base-dir, `base-dir`>> option.

[[ap-cp]]
=== CP Subsystem persistence and AP persistence

Hazelcast also offers xref:storage:persistence.adoc[persistence] for some AP data structures. If you persist AP and CP data structures in a single Hazelcast cluster, be aware that member or cluster restarts can fail because of either the persisted AP data structures or the CP data structures.

> //RJS: what about the persisted structures might make restarts fail? How do you avoid this?

Author: Got it. What do you do if a restart fails?

Reducing the number of leadership candidates reduces the fault tolerance of the CP Subsystem. You should therefore only enable this feature if it is necessary to achieve your throughput requirements, and you should enable it on as few members as possible. This feature does not apply to the `METADATA` group, which is not sensitive to latency.

[[sessions]]
== Configure CP sessions

> xref:cp-subsystem:cp-subsystem.adoc#sessions[Sessions] offer a trade-off between liveness and safety. If you set a small value for the <<session-time-to-live-seconds,`session-time-to-live-seconds`>> option, a session owner could be considered crashed very quickly and its resources could be released prematurely. On the other hand, if you set a large value, a session could be kept alive for an unnecessarily long duration after its owner crashes. We recommend using the default `session-time-to-live-seconds` duration. If a session owner is known to have crashed, you can close its session manually.

Reviewer: Is it liveliness or liveness in this context?

//RJS: how do you close a session manually?

[[fencedlock-configuration]]
== Configure fenced locks

> By default, fenced locks are reentrant. When a caller acquires the lock, it can acquire the lock reentrantly as many times as it wants in a linearizable manner.

Reviewer: Perhaps explain what we mean e.g. 'By default, fenced locks are reentrant. This means that once a caller has acquired the lock, the same caller can acquire it again multiple times in a linearizable manner, without releasing it first.'

Author: Much better, thank you

You can configure the reentrancy behavior with the <<lock-acquire-limit,`lock-acquire-limit`>> option. For example, reentrancy can be disabled by setting this option to `1`, making the lock a non-reentrant mutex. You can also set a custom reentrancy limit. When the reentrancy limit is reached, the fenced lock fails with `LockAcquireLimitReachedException` or a specified return value.
//RJS: specified where?

== Configure semaphores

By default, a caller must acquire permits before releasing them and it cannot release a permit that it has not acquired. This means that you can acquire a permit from one thread and release it from another thread, using the same caller, but not different callers. In this mode, acquired permits are automatically released upon failure of the caller.

To enable a permit to be released without acquiring it first, enable JDK compatibility by setting the <<jdk-compatibility,`jdk-compatibility`>> option to `true`.

WARNING: When `jdk-compatibility` is set to `true`, Hazelcast does not auto-cleanup acquired permits upon caller failures. If a permit holder fails, its permits must be released manually.

> //RJS: how do you release permits manually?

Author: Like the fenced lock config, is this a standard Java concept (permits, relating to sealed classes)? Will this be clear to all CP subsystem users?

[[remove]]
== Remove missing CP members

If CP Subsystem persistence is disabled, CP members lose their state after shutting down and so cannot rejoin the CP Subsystem. You can configure CP members to be automatically removed from the CP Subsystem after they shut down as well as how long to wait after they shut down before removing them.

By default, missing CP members are automatically removed from the CP Subsystem after 4 hours and replaced with other available CP members. You can configure this time using the <<missing-cp-member-auto-removal-seconds,`missing-cp-member-auto-removal-seconds`>> option.

If a missing CP member rejoins the cluster after it is automatically removed from the CP Subsystem, that CP member must be terminated manually. See xref:maintain-cluster:shutdown.adoc#shutting-down-a-hazelcast-member[Shutting Down a Hazelcast Member].

If no CP members are available to replace a missing CP member, the group size of any groups that it was in is reduced and the majority values are recalculated. The CP group will continue to function as long as a majority of the configured number of CP members remains available.

> When CP Subsystem persistence is enabled, CP members are not automatically removed from the CP Subsystem. These CP members can restore their CP state from disk and rejoin their CP groups. It is your responsibility to xref:management.adoc#remove-a-cp-member[remove CP members] if they do not restart.

Reviewer: How about "You must" instead of "It is your responsibility to"

====

|[[leader-heartbeat-period-in-millis]]`leader-heartbeat-period-in-millis`

> |Duration in milliseconds for a CP group leader to send periodic heartbeat messages to its followers to indicate its liveness. Periodic heartbeat messages are actually append entries requests and can contain log entries for the lagging followers. If too small a value is set, heartbeat messages are sent from leaders to followers too frequently and it can cause an unnecessary usage of CPU and network bandwidth.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Interval in milliseconds at which a CP group leader sends periodic heartbeat messages to its followers to indicate its liveness. Periodic heartbeat messages are actually append entries requests and can contain log entries for the lagging followers. If too small a value is set, heartbeat messages are sent from leaders to followers too frequently and it can cause an unnecessary usage of CPU and network bandwidth.
```
